[Music]
get your Hoover on folks it's time to
vacuum really I've seen your carpets Oh
we're not talking about that kind of
vacuuming okay back up
let's take it from the top hey would you
believe me if I told you there was one
exercise you could do for just five
minutes a day to get the flat stomach of
your dreams I'm talking about the
abdominal vacuum and yeah it does kind
of suck the inches right off your
midsection in a way hey check it out
this exercise became widely popular
thanks to bodybuilders like Frank Zane
and Arnold Schwarzenegger back in the
early 70s but it wasn't this sport that
came up with the technique it comes from
yoga which you can also thank for the
plank by the way anyway the vacuum is
based on a breathing technique that's
known as belly pulling you can do it in
any position standing sitting or even
lying on your back maybe not standing on
your head but hey you can't have it all
what's even better you don't need any
special equipment gym clothes or
anything else it's just you and a couple
of minutes of your time mm-hmm I like
the sound of that now before I get into
the how to's and you start trying this
exercise with me let me give a quick but
crucial warning if you have digestive
hard or blood pressure problems don't do
this exercise before getting the green
light from your doctor it's also a no-go
for pregnant women those in the first
few weeks after giving birth and anyone
who's had any kind of abdominal surgery
also pronounced surgery within the last
six months if none of that applies to
you and you're ready to go one more
thing
be extra attentive to your body while
doing the vacuum if you're not feeling
well
be it dizziness or pain in your belly
stop doing the exercise and go see a
doctor okay so you have no health issues
great with safety precautions out of the
way let's look at how you do this thing
if you're only getting acquainted with
stomach vacuuming then standing up would
be the best way to begin it's easier to
do while slightly bent forward with your
hands on your thighs and your face
looking down at the floor take a deep
breath in and a full breath out remember
be mindful of your body and feel your
lungs working this is a preparatory
breath then breathe in through your nose
slowly butt to the deepest extent
possible now imagine you're a balloon
fully release the air through your mouth
you can even make a sound to really make
sure that all the air leaves your lungs
plus it adds to the whole balloon
illusion right do it slowly until there
isn't any air left in your body
oddly enough you'll also feel that
there's plenty of space inside of you
okay here comes the actual vacuum suck
in your belly as far as you can imagine
you're trying to touch your belly button
to your spine it's okay if you can't
suck your stomach in very far this step
takes practice and time if you did
everything right you should feel the
transverse abdominal muscle straining
this is a muscle deep within your core
that they call your body's natural
corset by the way don't be surprised if
you can't breathe in this position
otherwise your stomach muscles would
relax and that's not what you want if
you're just a beginner you may only be
able to hold it for five to ten seconds
but regular practice will help you
gradually increase the time maybe even
to a minute for super advanced folks
after time is up just breathe regularly
while releasing your stomach to repeat
the steps it's better to do say three
ten-second vacuums take a two minute
break and do three more vacuums hey not
so fast I've got a few more tips and
important things you should know before
you head out in the world and start
vacuuming away for better progress and
fewer chances of feeling nauseous only
do the exercise on an empty stomach
first thing in the morning before
breakfast or
last thing in the evening before bed
would be perfect even though the outfit
you're wearing doesn't really matter try
to choose clothes that don't restrict
your movements or breathing you'll feel
a lot more comfy also if you're doing
the vacuum for the first time and you're
still learning the technique do it in
front of a mirror this way you'll be
able to keep an eye on your form and
notice if you do something wrong by the
way don't get discouraged if you're not
able to do the exercise perfectly the
first few times it often takes some
practice to perform the vacuum
successfully it shouldn't take more than
10 minutes a day but sticking to 5:00 is
your best bet if you do it for too long
it can overload your lungs plus the
excess oxygen can cause dizziness and
headache you'll be able to do it
anywhere like when you're waiting for
the bus standing in line at the store or
just sitting at your desk if you decide
to go the sitting-down route it's
especially important that you keep good
posture
sit up straight in your chair relax your
shoulders keep them down and pull back a
bit then do the usual breathe in slowly
and exhale all of the air in your lungs
before sucking in your stomach and
holding the position and like I said
earlier you can also do the vacuum while
lying on the floor
just keep your back flat on the ground
and bend your knees while keeping your
feet planted on the floor as well you
can also keep your arms relaxed at your
sides now you're ready to start that
deep breathing and pull your stomach in
and all the usual steps there's one more
way to do the exercise and that's on all
fours make sure your knees are in line
with your hips and the same goes for
your hands with your shoulders don't
arch your back or bend your neck just
keep your gaze down on the floor below
you then go ahead and do the breathing
and sucking in steps
now once you've really mastered the
regular vacuum technique you may try to
advance your training a bit as soon as
you let all the air out of your body and
press the front wall of your abdomen
under your ribs
try to release your stomach almost like
you're puffing it up don't breathe in
only 10 - rep Domino muscles then relax
and do another rep stomach vacuum is
great for slimming down the midsection
in fact it can shave 4 inches off your
waist within 3 weeks if you do it right
but it's not just good for the outward
stuff abdominal vacuuming also corrects
posture relieves back pain and really
helps out your digestive system by
acting as a massage for the internal
organs and finally be consistent and
realistic you're not going to get a
6-pack overnight so you need to do the
stomach vacuum regularly also it
certainly doesn't hurt to include other
ab exercises in your fitness regimen as
well and no matter what you're doing to
get rid of the spare tire you can't
underestimate the importance of your
diet you won't be able to lose fat and
bloat if you keep taking in process and
high caloric foods so clean eating
exercise and persistence there's your
recipe for success so now it's your turn
are you interested in giving the stomach
vacuum a try let me know what your
favorite exercises are down in the
comments if you learn something new
today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend we have over 2,000 cool
videos for you to check out all you have
to do is pick the left or right video
click on it and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life